<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="applying_profile_attributes">
    <title>Applying Profile Attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>Learn how to apply profile attributes (conditional text) in Oxygen XML
        Author.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq id="prereq_sfk_4j3_1zb"><p>Ensure you have created profile attributes (conditional
            text) in your DITA document</p></prereq>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open the DITA document where you have defined profile attributes (conditional
                    text) in Oxygen XML Author. </cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select the content that you want to conditionally hide or show based on the
                    profile attributes.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Right-click in the editor and select <uicontrol>Edit profiling
                        Attributes</uicontrol></cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On the <wintitle>Edit Profiling Attributes</wintitle> window, select the
                    profile attribute(s) you want to apply from the list.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol> to apply the selected profile attribute to the
                    content. The content will be conditionally displayed .</cmd>
                <stepresult>By following these steps, you can effectively apply profile attributes
                    (conditional text) to control the visibility of content in Oxygen XML Author.
                    This allows you to tailor your documentation for different audiences or
                    conditions defined by the profile attributes.</stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq id="postreq_cvc_2k3_1zb">After applying profile attributes, you can further
            customize and refine the conditional text behavior as needed in your DITA
            document.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="creating_profile_attributes.dita" format="dita"/>
    </related-links>
</task>
