<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dita_topic_type">
    <title>Concept Topic Type</title>
    <shortdesc> This topic explains the purpose, characteristics, and common use cases of the
        Concept topic type. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p> In DITA (Darwin Information Typing Architecture), a topic is a fundamental type of topic
            designed to provide high-level explanations and background information about a specific
            subject or topic. It serves the primary purpose of answering the question, "What is it?" </p>
        <section>
            <title>Purpose</title>
            <p> The primary purpose of a Concept topic is to convey fundamental understanding and
                context about a subject matter. It aims to provide readers with a broad overview and
                foundational knowledge without delving into specific procedures or tasks. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Key Characteristics</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>  Concept topics offer a high-level understanding of a topic or concept,
                        presenting information in a manner that is easily digestible and devoid of
                        detailed procedures. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>  They include definitions, explanations, examples, and analogies to clarify
                        complex ideas and terminology. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>  Concept topics do not provide step-by-step instructions or specific tasks
                        to perform. Instead, they focus on knowledge transfer and comprehension. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Common Use Cases</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>  Concept topics are commonly used for introducing readers to new software
                        applications, technologies, or complex subjects. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>  They are employed to explain terminology, principles, theories, or abstract
                        concepts. </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>  Concept topics serve as a valuable resource for providing background
                        context and foundational knowledge that can be referenced in more detailed
                        topics. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
