<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="introduction_to_dita">
    <title>DITA terminology and notation</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <div><p>The DITA specification uses specific notation and terms to define the components of
                the DITA standard.</p><b>Notation</b>The following conventions are used throughout
            the specification:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>attribute types</dt>
                    <dd>Attribute names are preceded by @ to distinguish them from elements or
                        surrounding text, for example, the <codeph>@props</codeph> or the
                            <codeph>@class</codeph> attribute.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>element types</dt>
                    <dd>Element names are delimited with angle brackets (&lt; and >) to distinguish
                        them from surrounding text, for example, the <codeph>&lt;keyword></codeph>
                        or the <codeph>&lt;prolog></codeph> element.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><p>In general, the unqualified use of the term map or topic can be interpreted to
                mean "a <codeph>&lt;map></codeph> element and any specialization of a
                    <codeph>&lt;map></codeph> element " or "a <codeph>&lt;topic></codeph> element or
                any specialization of a <codeph>&lt;topic></codeph> element." Similarly, the
                unqualified use of an element type name (for example, <codeph>&lt;p></codeph>) can
                be interpreted to mean the element type or any specialization of the element
                type.</p><b>Normative and non-normative information</b>The DITA specification
            contains normative and non-normative information:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Normative information</dt>
                    <dd>Normative information is the formal portion of the specification that
                        describes the rules and requirements that make up the DITA standard and
                        which must be followed.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Non-normative information</dt>
                    <dd>Non-normative information includes descriptions that provide background,
                        examples, notes, and other useful information that are not formal
                        requirements or rules that must be followed.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><p>All information in the specification should be considered normative unless it is
                an example, a note, an appendix, or is explicitly labeled as non-normative. The DITA
                specification contains examples to help clarify or illustrate specific aspects of
                the specification. Because examples are specific rather than general, they might not
                illustrate all aspects or be the only way to accomplish or implement an aspect of
                the specification. Therefore all examples are non-normative.</p><b>Basic DITA
                terminology</b><p>The following terminology is used to discuss basic DITA
                concepts:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>DITA document</dt>
                    <dd>An XML document that conforms to the requirements of this specification. A
                        DITA document MUST have as its root element one of the following
                            elements:<ul id="ul_pjb_swn_wyb">
                            <li><codeph>&lt;map></codeph> or a specialization of the
                                    <codeph>&lt;map></codeph> element</li>
                            <li><codeph>&lt;topic></codeph> or a specialization of the
                                    <codeph>&lt;topic></codeph> element</li>
                            <li><codeph>&lt;dita></codeph>, which cannot be specialized, but which
                                allows documents with multiple sibling topics</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>DITA document type</dt>
                    <dd>A unique set of structural modules, domain modules, and constraint modules
                        that taken together provide the XML element and attribute declarations that
                        define the structure of DITA documents.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>DITA document-type shell</dt>
                    <dd>A set of DTD, XSD, or RELAX NG declarations that implement a DITA document
                        type by using the rules and design patterns that are included in the DITA
                        specification. A DITA document-type shell includes and configures one or
                        more structural modules, zero or more domain modules, and zero or more
                        constraint modules. With the exception of the optional declarations for the
                            <codeph>&lt;dita></codeph> element and its attributes, DITA
                        document-type shells do not declare any element or attribute types
                        directly.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>DITA element</dt>
                    <dd>An XML element instance whose type is a DITA element type. DITA elements
                        must exhibit a <codeph>@class</codeph> attribute that has a value that
                        conforms to the rules for specialization hierarchy specifications.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>DITA element type</dt>
                    <dd>An element type that is either one of the base element types that are
                        defined by the DITA specification, or a specialization of one of the base
                        element types.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>map instance</dt>
                    <dd>An occurrence of a map type in a DITA document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>map type</dt>
                    <dd>A map or a specialization of map that defines a set of relationships among
                        topic instances.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>structural type instance</dt>
                    <dd>An occurrence of a topic type or a map type in a DITA document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>topic instance</dt>
                    <dd>An occurrence of a topic type in a DITA document.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>topic type</dt>
                    <dd>A topic or a specialization of topic that defines a complete unit of
                        content.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><b>Specialization terminology</b><p>The following terminology is used to discuss
                DITA specialization:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>base type</dt>
                    <dd>An element or attribute type that is not a specialization. All base types
                        are defined by the DITA specification.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>extension element</dt>
                    <dd>Within a vocabulary module, an element type that can be extended, replaced,
                        or constrained for use in a DITA document type.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>generalization</dt>
                    <dd>The process by which a specialized element is transformed into a
                        less-specialized ancestor element or a specialized attribute is transformed
                        into a less-specialized ancestor attribute. The original
                        specialization-hierarchy information can be preserved in the generalized
                        instance; this allows the original specialized type to be recreated from the
                        generalized instance.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>specialization</dt>
                    <dd>(1) The act of defining new element or attribute types as a semantic
                        refinement of existing element or attribute types</dd>
                    <dd>(2) An element or attribute type that is a specialization of a base
                        type</dd>
                    <dd>(3) A process by which a generalized element is transformed into one of its
                        more specialized element types or a generalized attribute is transformed
                        into a more specialized attribute.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>specialization hierarchy</dt>
                    <dd>The sequence of element or attribute types, from the most general to most
                        specialized, from which a given element or attribute type is specialized.
                        The specialization hierarchy for a DITA element is formally declared through
                        its <codeph>@class</codeph> attribute.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>structural type</dt>
                    <dd>A topic type or map type.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><b>DITA modules</b><p>The following terminology is used to discuss DITA
                modules:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>attribute domain module</dt>
                    <dd>A domain module that defines a specialization of either the
                            <codeph>@base</codeph> or <codeph>@props</codeph> attribute.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>constraint module</dt>
                    <dd>A set of declarations that imposes additional constraints onto the element
                        or attribute types that are defined in a specific vocabulary module.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>domain module</dt>
                    <dd>A vocabulary module that defines a set of element types or an attribute type
                        that supports a specific subject or functional area.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>element domain module</dt>
                    <dd>A domain module that defines one or more element types for use within maps
                        or topics.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>structural module</dt>
                    <dd>A vocabulary module that defines a top-level map type or topic type.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>vocabulary module</dt>
                    <dd>A set of element or attribute declarations.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><b>Linking and addressing terms</b><p>The following terminology is used to discuss
                linking and addressing terms:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt id="terminology__referenced-element">referenced element</dt>
                    <dd>An element that is referenced by another DITA element. See also referencing
                        element.</dd>
                    <dd><b>Example</b>Consider the following code sample from a
                        installation-reuse.dita topic. The <codeph>&lt;step></codeph> element that
                        it contains is a referenced element; other DITA topics reference the
                            <codeph>&lt;step></codeph> element by using the <codeph>@conref</codeph>
                        attribute.<pre><b>&lt;step</b> id="run-startcmd-script"<b>></b><b>&lt;cmd></b>Run the startcmd script that is applicable to your operating-system environment.<b>&lt;/cmd></b><b>&lt;/step></b></pre></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt id="terminology__referencing-element">referencing element</dt>
                    <dd>An element that references another DITA element by specifying an addressing
                        attribute. See also referenced element and addressing attribute</dd>
                    <dd><b>Example</b>The following <codeph>&lt;step></codeph> element is a
                        referencing element. It uses the <codeph>@conref</codeph> attribute to
                        reference a <codeph>&lt;step></codeph> element in the
                        installation-reuse.dita
                        topic.<pre><b>&lt;step</b> conref="installation-reuse.dita#reuse/run-startcmd-script"<b>></b><b>&lt;cmd/></b><b>&lt;/step></b></pre></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>addressing attribute</dt>
                    <dd>An attribute, such as <codeph>@conref</codeph>, <codeph>@conkeyref</codeph>,
                            <codeph>@keyref</codeph>, and <codeph>@href</codeph>, that specifies an
                        address.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><b>Terminology related to keys</b><p>The following terminology is used to discuss
                keys:</p><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>resource</dt>
                    <dd>For the purposes of keys and key resolution, one of the following:<ul
                            id="ul_qjb_swn_wyb">
                            <li>An object addressed by URI</li>
                            <li>Metadata specified on a resource, such as a <codeph>@scope</codeph>
                                or <codeph>@format</codeph> attribute</li>
                            <li>Text or metadata located within a <codeph>&lt;topicmeta></codeph>
                                element</li>
                        </ul></dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>key</dt>
                    <dd>A name for a resource. See <xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/using-keys-for-addressing.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">Using keys for addressing</xref> for more
                        information.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>key definition</dt>
                    <dd>A <codeph>&lt;topicref></codeph> element that binds one or more key names to
                        zero or more resources.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>key reference</dt>
                    <dd>An attribute that references a key, such as <codeph>@keyref</codeph> or
                            <codeph>@conkeyref</codeph>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>key space</dt>
                    <dd>A list of key definitions that are used to resolve key references.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>effective key definition</dt>
                    <dd>The definition for a key within a key space that is used to resolve
                        references to that key. A key might have multiple definitions within a key
                        space, but only one of those definitions is effective.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>key scope</dt>
                    <dd>A map or section of a map that defines its own key space and serves as the
                        resolution context for its key references.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl><b>Map terms</b><dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>root map</dt>
                    <dd>The DITA map that is provided as input for a processor.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>submap</dt>
                    <dd>A DITA map that is referenced with a <codeph>@scope</codeph> attribute that
                        evaluates as "local". The value of the scope attribute might be explicitly
                        set, be defaulted, or cascade from another element.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>peer map</dt>
                    <dd>A DITA map that is referenced with a <codeph>@scope</codeph> attribute that
                        evaluates as "peer". The value of the scope attribute might be explicitly
                        set, be defaulted, or cascade from another element.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>map branch</dt>
                    <dd>A <codeph>&lt;topicref></codeph> element or a specialization of
                            <codeph>&lt;topicref></codeph>, along with any child elements and all
                        resources that are referenced by the original element or its children.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></div>
    </conbody>
</concept>
