<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="introduction_to_dita">
    <title>DITA Open Toolkit 1.8 Documentation</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_bt2_5wn_wyb">
            <title>DITA Open Toolkit 1.8</title>
            <p>This document describes the DITA Open Toolkit project—what the project is, and how to
                use the site.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ct2_5wn_wyb"><title>What is the DITA Open Toolkit?</title><p>The DITA
                Open Toolkit, or DITA-OT for short, is a set of Java-based, open source tools that
                provide processing for DITA maps and topic content. You can download the OT and
                install it for free on your computer to get started with topic-based writing and
                publishing. The DITA-OT is licensed under the <xref
                    href="http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.php" format="html"
                    scope="external">CPL 1.0</xref> and <xref
                    href="http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0" format="html" scope="external"
                    >Apache 2.0</xref> open source licenses.</p><b>Note:</b> While the DITA Standard
            itself is owned and developed by OASIS, the DITA Open Toolkit is an independent, open
            source implementation of the standard.<p>Key output formats for the toolkit
                include:</p><ul id="ul_dt2_5wn_wyb">
                <li>XHTML</li>
                <li>PDF (formerly known as PDF2)</li>
                <li>ODT (Open Document Format)</li>
                <li>Eclipse Help</li>
                <li>TocJS (XHTML with a JavaScript frameset)</li>
                <li>HTML Help</li>
                <li>Java Help</li>
                <li>Eclipse Content (normalized DITA plus Eclipse project files)</li>
                <li>Word RTF (with some limitations)</li>
                <li>Docbook</li>
                <li>Troff</li>
            </ul></section>
        <section id="section_et2_5wn_wyb"><title>Toolkit documentation</title><p>There are two
                primary sources for documentation about the toolkit.</p><p>Stable documentation
                about toolkit usage, parameters, and project management can be found on this page,
                using the navigation panel on the left.</p><p>New information about the latest
                toolkit builds, plans for the next release, and other changing information can be
                found on the DITA-OT landing page at the dita.xml.org site (link below). That site
                also contains the release notes for all upcoming and previous
                releases.</p><b>Related concepts</b><xref
                href="https://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/1.8/readme/distribution_packages.html"
                format="html" scope="external">Distribution packages</xref><b>Related
                information</b><xref href="http://dita.xml.org/wiki/the-dita-open-toolkit"
                format="html" scope="external">Main DITA-OT page at dita.xml.org</xref><xref
                href="http://sourceforge.net/news/?group_id=132728" format="html" scope="external"
                >Project News for DITA Open Toolkit</xref><b>Shortcuts to important
                information</b><xref
                href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/dita-ot/files/DITA-OT%20Stable%20Release/"
                format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT stable release</xref><xref
                href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/dita-ot/files/DITA-OT%20Latest%20Test%20Build/"
                format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT latest development build</xref></section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
