<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="introduction_to_dita">
    <title>Introduction to DITA</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is an XML-based architecture for
            authoring, producing, and delivering topic-oriented, information-typed content that can
            be reused and single-sourced in a variety of ways. While DITA historically has been
            driven by the requirements of large-scale technical documentation authoring, management,
            and delivery, it is a standard that is applicable to any kind of publication or
            information that might be presented to readers, including interactive training and
            educational materials, standards, reports, business documents, trade books, travel and
            nature guides, and more. DITA is designed for creating new document types and describing
            new information domains based on existing types and domains. The process for creating
            new types and domains is called specialization. Specialization enables the creation of
            specific, targeted XML grammars that can still use tools and design rules that were
            developed for more general types and domains; this is similar to how classes in an
            object-oriented system can inherit the methods of ancestor classes. Because DITA topics
            are conforming XML documents, they can be readily viewed, edited, and validated using
            standard XML tools, although realizing the full potential of DITA requires using
            DITA-aware tools.</p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_prg_bvn_wyb">
                <li><b><xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/dita-terminology.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">DITA terminology and
                    notation</xref></b>The DITA specification uses specific notation and terms to
                    define the components of the DITA standard.</li>
                <li><b><xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/basic-concepts.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">Basic concepts</xref></b>DITA has been
                    designed to satisfy requirements for information typing, semantic markup,
                    modularity, reuse, interchange, and production of different deliverable forms
                    from a single source. These topics provide an overview of the key DITA features
                    and facilities that serve to satisfy these requirements.</li>
                <li><b><xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/fileext.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">File extensions</xref></b>DITA uses
                    certain file extensions for topics, maps, and conditional processing
                    profiles.</li>
                <li><b><xref
                            href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/dita/1.3/specs/archSpec/base/single-sourcing.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">Producing different deliverables from a
                            single source</xref></b>DITA is designed to enable the production of
                    multiple deliverable formats from a single set of DITA content. This means that
                    many rendition details are specified neither in the DITA specification nor in
                    the DITA content; the rendition details are defined and controlled by the
                    processors.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
