<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="reference_topic_type">
    <title>Reference Topic Type</title>
    <shortdesc> This topic provides an in-depth understanding of the Reference topic type,
        explaining its purpose, characteristics, and common use cases. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>
            In DITA (Darwin Information Typing Architecture), a Reference topic is a vital topic type designed to provide comprehensive and detailed information about specific elements, parameters, or features. It serves the primary purpose of offering detailed reference material.
        </p>
        <section>
            <title>Purpose</title>
            <p> The primary purpose of a Reference topic is to present users with comprehensive and
                detailed information about specific elements, parameters, or features. It is
                intended to serve as a reference guide for users seeking in-depth information. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Key Characteristics</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Comprehensive Information: Reference topics include detailed specifications, properties, options, and parameters, providing a thorough understanding of the subject matter.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Structured Information: They are often organized hierarchically or categorically to help users locate specific details efficiently and navigate complex information.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p> No Prescriptive Guidance: Reference topics do not include step-by-step
                        instructions or procedures. Instead, they focus on presenting facts and
                        details. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Common Use Cases</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        API Documentation: Reference topics are commonly used in API documentation to describe functions, classes, parameters, and their specifications.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Hardware Component Specifications: They are employed to provide detailed technical information about hardware components, including specifications and compatibility.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p> Software Feature Catalogs: Reference topics serve as catalogs of software
                        features, configuration options, settings, and their detailed descriptions. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
