<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="task_topic_type">
    <title>Task Topic Type</title>
    <shortdesc> This topic provides an in-depth understanding of the Task topic type, explaining its
        purpose, characteristics, and common use cases. </shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>
            In DITA (Darwin Information Typing Architecture), a Task topic is a critical topic type used for guiding users through a series of steps to accomplish a specific goal or perform a task. The primary question it answers is, "How do I do it?"
        </p>
        <section>
            <title>Purpose</title>
            <p> The primary purpose of a Task topic is to provide users with detailed, step-by-step
                instructions for completing a specific task or achieving a particular goal. It
                offers actionable guidance. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Key Characteristics</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Step-by-Step Guidance: Task topics present instructions in a clear, sequential format, often using numbered steps or bullet points to ensure clarity and order.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Action-Oriented: They focus on actions and procedures that users need to follow to achieve a specific outcome, making them highly practical.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p> Goal-Centric: Task topics are goal-oriented and help users complete tasks
                        efficiently, making them ideal for procedural documentation. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Common Use Cases</title>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Tutorials and Guides: Task topics are commonly used for creating tutorials and guides on how to use software applications, tools, or equipment.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>
                        Installation and Configuration: They are employed for documenting installation, configuration, and setup procedures for software, hardware, or systems.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p> Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs): Task topics are essential for
                        detailing standard operating procedures in various industries, ensuring
                        consistency and compliance. </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
